---
layout: post
title: "Take My Land, Take My Hand."
modified:
categories: 
excerpt: "Tata Steel who has secured more iron ores than any other private steel company in Odisha has employed only 64 Odias in its under construction steel facility at Kalinganagar Industrial Complex"
image:
  feature:
date: 2015-01-26T02:28:37+05:30
---
47000 candidates registered online to participate in a recruitment drive conducted by Naveen Sarkar where they promised to rope in 300 companies to come and hire from the pool. Breaking News, nothing of that sort happened or is there to happen in government’s plans. Employment, Technical Education and Training (ETET) Department headed by a stooge of Naveen who till recent was busy covering up his sorry a$$ in some phony building violation deal and pushing a chit funded SUV under his rug, has already postponed the drive twice, the recent one was in November. And you have to give credit to his shamelessness when he said the drive was being postponed due to lack of interest from recruiters which must have been the pre requisite to moot such a campaign. 
 
   But I won’t be doing justice if I blame this botch tormenting the technical grads of our state square on him, because we all know where lies the control to all these policy decisions of government. Its that famous third floor, which I believe was a puzzle given to us by the great Harekrushna Mahatab who had some premonitions that a third grade person is gonna occupy it for the longest amount of time. Naveen Patnaik probably never ever had to do a job and hence does not understand what loosing a year out of job means to a young, energetic & educated gentleman or woman. His callouss policy making totally counter to the future and interest of youth in our state has got us to a point that the employment generation in our state is negative now. There are numerous industrial estates around the state where small & medium industrial units flourished a decade ago will now remind you of a set of a haunted movie. You don’t have to go too far to find just look in the industrial estates surrounding Bhubaneswar, you will get the idea. But you would wonder where did those gazillions of US dollars in investment go you would ask. Apparently they have gone to mysterious crevices of the all consuming black hole called Naveen Sarkar. Who has converted trading our soil, water, sea and land for virtual dollars into a well rehearsed routine. Tata Steel who is the anchor tenant of the industrial park being developed on 3500 acres at Gopalpur, got about 1000 acres of land from the government. One would guess government has given the land as a measure towards employment generation. But that wishful thinking will blow in your face when you know Tata Steel who has secured more iron ores than any other private steel company in Odisha has employed only 64 Odias in its under construction steel facility at Kalinganagar Industrial Complex, Jajpur. Simillar is the story with POSCO India Private Limited who till date has employed only 8 Odias. Naveen Sarkar has signed MoUs with 49 steel plants and all these 49 units have managed to absorb is a mere 19,300 persons, across all operations. Compare that to the 47000 technical graduates only who have registered for the mirage that is ETET recruitment drive.
  
  This is no anomaly Naveen Sarkar has never been sensitive to the most pressing issue of our state that is unemployment. Most pressing because unemployment is the root cause of a lot of other problems like alcoholism, growing violence , maoism, etc we face in our state. 10,42,826 educated youth have registered themselves in employment exchanges across the state an astronomical number compared to 42,222 who have been recruited by different organizations in last 14 years of Naveen’s rule. Naveen’s comatose and has no empathy for the youth of Odisha, so it is unto us if we choose to suck it up to his toxic policies on employment generation or force him to get his act together and give us a future.
